A Very Concise Guru Yoga Based on Amitābha Homage to the Guru and the Three Jewels! In the Buddha, the Dharma, and the Supreme Assembly I take refuge until I attain enlightenment. Through the merit of practicing generosity and so on, May I attain buddhahood for the benefit of all beings. Repeat three times. Above my head, on a lotus-and-moon seat, The guru Buddha Amitābha, red in color with one face, and with two hands in the mudrā of equipoise, Sits with his legs crossed in full vajra posture. He wears the two Dharma robes And the attire of a monastic. His heart emanates light That invites all the lamas, buddhas, and bodhisattvas. In the form of Amitābha, they dissolve into the guru. As a result, all the lamas, buddhas, and bodhisattvas assume his essence. Say these words and meditate accordingly. Then: So that I and all sentient beings may be free from suffering, be happy, and quickly reach buddhahood-O guru, think of us! Bringing these thoughts to mind, give rise to one-pointed devotion. If you want, you can recite the seven-branch offering from Samantabhadra's Aspiration to Good Actions. In every direction . . . In any case, say: Bhagavān, tathāgata, arhat, complete and perfect buddha, Guru Amitābha, to you I pay homage! To you I make offerings! In you I take refuge! Grant your blessings so that I and all sentient beings may be free from suffering, be happy, and quickly reach buddhahood! Say these words and mean them from the depth of your heart. If you want to elaborate, add: TADYATHĀ | OM AṂṚTA | AṂṚTOD BHAVE | AMṚTA SAṂBHAVE | AMṚTA VIKRĀNTA GĀMINI | GAGANA KĪRTI KARE | SARVA KLEŚA KṢAYAṂ KARE SVĀHĀ This is the dhāraṇī of remembering Amitābha, which you can also recite as many times as possible. To conclude: The guru melts into light and the light dissolves into me through the top of my head. His enlightened body, speech, and mind become indivisible from my body, speech, and mind. Meditate on this and rest in that state as long as you are able. You can chant the remaining section of Samantabhadra's Aspiration to Good Actions, starting with: Let offerings be made to the buddhas of the ten directions . . . Or just these few lines from the same prayer: Being born there in a beautiful lotus flower, In that excellent and joyous buddha realm, May Buddha Amitābha himself Grant me the prophecy foretelling my enlightenment! Having received with others the prophecy there, With billions of emanations Sent out through the power of our minds, May we bring enormous benefit to sentient beings in all the ten directions! By the blessings of the buddhas who have attained the three kāyas, The blessing of the unchanging truth of reality, And the blessing of the unwavering aspirations of the saṅgha, May all our aspirations and dedication prayers be fulfilled! Say this and other prayers to dedicate the merit. This guru yoga was compiled by the monk Togme for the yogi free of worldly involvement called Paljor Zangpo, at the Ngulchu Dharma fortress. Khyentse Wangpo rewrote it into an arrangement that is easy to read for daily recitation. Virtue. 
